Here are some ideas on how to retain people.
Now there is stuff, as I call it, not in your control.
Life happens and people may leave for all sorts of reasons,
and some very good, for example, family,
a spouse's new opportunity, personal growth,
those you can't control.
But what you don't want is people leaving because of
you and what is in your control.
Also regarding promotions and salary and benefits,
that also may not totally be in your control,
but find out what influence you have in those areas so you can
use them as tools to be more successful.
So talk to your manager or human resources and find out more about those ideas.
Now if you can align your IT activities to the business then people will
feel more connected to the business and their job.
This will create better motivation and passion and therefore people
like to hang around and you'll retain more people.
If you can successfully manage customer expectations you will have a
better relationship between your customers and your team.
People will feel appreciated for their efforts and they
will stay and hang around longer.
You can build team skills,
your team will feel that they are improving their
capabilities and growing professionally.
All of the last three items will go a long way to retaining your team.
Performance reviews, these allow people to know where they stand.
If they are not sure,
some might think they are viewed more negatively and might consider leaving.
Also, as we have discussed,
performance reviews also focus on professional improvement and training,
typically we are always excited to do and learn new things,
also good for retention.
But don't forget about one on one, that is,
talking with each person and more importantly listening.
Most people tend to talk too much.
I'm guilty of that too.
So just try and listen more.
And lo and behold,
you will learn something new about a person that can help in
nurturing and coaching of that person.
And ask them what's frustrating them about their job,
what they want to be doing, but aren't getting to do it.
Be friendly, but blunt and honest as well.
You need to understand what makes people tick and
see if you can accommodate them, sometimes you can't.
Now let's talk about a few more items about how to retain people.
Here are some ideas on how to improve retention.
Hire the right people.
The best way to ensure employees don't leave is to make sure you
are hiring the right employees to begin with.
And as we've talked, define the role or roles clearly,
both to yourself and to the candidates,
and then be absolutely sure the candidate is a fit,
not only for it, the role, but for your company's culture,
for your department's culture.
As we will see in this module, I have many ideas on how to hire the right people.
Next, fire people who don't fit.
Sometimes even when you follow the advice above,
you'll get an employee who, no matter what you try to do,
just doesn't fit.
Firing someone can be difficult and challenging to do,
so please seek the counsel of your manager and human
resources for the best course of action.
But it will incumbent on you to begin taking the necessary action or actions.
The pain of living with a bad fit will be greater and
exceed the pain of removing them, trust me.
Also when coworkers see others who are not a good
fit and maybe incompetent even, they themselves may consider leaving.
Recognize and reward employees.
Show your employees they are valued and appreciated by offering them immediate
recognition that praises their successes and their hard work.
Make it a specific and tangible reward and you too
will be rewarded with their loyalty.
Be flexible.
Today's employees, especially millennials,
really appreciate a flexible life and work balance,
as I think we all do.
Now this impacts retention directly.
In fact,
a boss in College Center for Work and Family Study found
that 76% of managers and 80% of employees,
almost the same,
indicated that flexible work arrangements had positive effects on retention.
Again, you may not have this option in your company,
so seek the advice from your manager and human resources to see if you can
offer employees flexibility around work hours and locations.
Next, enable opportunities for development and growth.
We've talked about that before with training.
Employees place a huge value on opportunities for growth.
There is a strong connection between lack of
development opportunity and higher turnover.
If you aren't developing your employees,
then you aren't investing in them, and if you're not investing in them,
why should they stay with you?
Demonstrate and cultivate respect.
Don't discount respect when it comes to creating a solid team.
Find ways to cultivate and nurture respect in your workplace
and it'll pay off in higher retention.
And finally, provide an inclusive environment,
you know,
one key factor in employee engagement and happiness seems to be if you can
provide them with a sense of purpose and meaning in their work,
for example,
we have done this through aligning our work to the business so that people
when they do their work feel connected to the business.
And also working closely with the customer as a team and
managing those customer expectations.
Both of those will really help in providing that
inclusive environment for your team.
Now here is a quote, "people leave managers, not companies.
" And who says this?
Experienced managers.
So as you embark on a new chapter in your career, please keep this in mind. Okay, now let's find the right talent for your organization when you need to.